---
layout: post
title:  "People with Disability and AI: Focusing on People with Vision Impairment"
date:   2023-09-25 23:59:37 +0900
categories: 
---

# Abstract

While AI has the potential to benefit society as a whole, it is essential to ensure that these advancements are embracing all users, including the visually impaired people. This essay explores the use experience of the visually impaired people in accessing and utilizing artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, highlighting the barriers they encounter. AI technologies, especially computer vision technology and Large Language Models, have potentially positive impacts on making a more inclusive society for the visually impaired people, on mobility and digital experience. Additionally, the legal aspects of digital inclusion and the need for comprehensive legislation regarding the visually impaired people are explored. By conducting interviews with experts in the fields of AI and vision disability, the essay aims to identify strategies and solutions to enhance the inclusivity of AI technologies for the visually impaired people. Thus, we concluded that considering the perspective of the visually impaired people in technology development and promoting a society that values inclusivity and continuous improvement is important. 

# 1. Introduction

Artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to make our society a better place, offering numerous benefits and advancements. However, amidst this wave of innovation, it is crucial to examine how these advancements are benefiting all members of society, particularly those with disabilities who may not be reaping the full benefits of AI. This report delves into the reasons behind the disparity between the promises of AI and the reality experienced by people with vision impairment. It aims to shed light on the challenges faced by individuals in accessing and utilizing AI technologies effectively. Furthermore, to gain deeper insights and expert perspectives on the topic, we conducted interviews with two renowned experts who have extensive knowledge and experience in the fields of AI and disability.By examining the barriers faced by people with vision impairment and exploring the insights shared by these experts, we aim to identify potential strategies and solutions that can enhance the inclusivity and accessibility of AI technologies for individuals with disabilities. Through this report, we hope to contribute to the ongoing dialogue on promoting equality, empowerment, and equal access to AI for all members of society.

# 2. Related Works

Review on AI use cases for BVI(blind or visually impaired) people have been done in various sources. Wang et al. (2023)[^18] reviewed 181 artificial intelligence-based studies on eye disease diagnosis and visual aids. Martinez (2021)[^19] wrote a blog article in which four major situations where AI adds value for PWD. It covers services useful for BVI people including screen readers like VoiceOver for communication support and navigation apps like SoundScape to support getting around. 

Some other studies have identified ethical challenges of AI regarding PWD(people with disabilities). Morris (2020)[^20] suggested seven ethical challenges(inclusivity, bias, privacy, error, expectation setting, simulated data, and social acceptability) of AI regarding the needs of PWD. In this communication, Morris concluded that technologists have responsibilities to deal with these challenges. Guo (2019)[^21] identified the interaction challenges for people with certain disabilities for each type of AI. For example, the body recognition system may not work well for PWD who can be characterized by body shape, posture, or mobility differences. These studies find out issues of current AIs and suggest future research direction. 

There were also public interviews held on AI and disabilities. AXS Chat (2019)[^22], a team which operates a community about inclusivity, interviewed John Rochford, who is an AI-powered accessibility researcher. In this interview, they introduced text simplification techniques for people intellectually with disabilities. Startup KAIST(2022)[^23] interviewed Ji-hyeok Park, a CEO of a company(Waddle) which develops a barrier-free shopping application for BVI people, to report his story as a part of their consecutive interviews for Startup CEOs. Aligned with these tries, we tried to report insights by conducting interviews in which experts for AI regarding BVI people communicated with CS & EE students(the authors).

# 3. Technology

Our team focuses on AI technology targeted towards individuals with vision impairments. There are two main AI technologies that cater to the needs of this demographic: Computer Vision and LLM fused with an interactive interface.

Computer vision technology serves as a second pair of eyes for individuals with vision impairments. For instance, it can annotate online images that lack "Alt text," providing descriptive information. Additionally, computer vision technology aids in navigating complex environments by identifying hazardous obstacles like walls or pits in real-time. To ensure safety, companies are implementing rigorous training image selection and verification processes to minimize errors in vision technology.

One widely used application of computer vision technology is OCR (Optical Character Recognition). OCR recognizes text within digital images. Traditional OCR technologies relied on templates that required entering specific text coordinates. However, AI technologies such as machine learning and computer vision have revolutionized OCR, enabling more versatile recognition of characters in various formats and reducing recognition errors.

LLM (Large Language Model) refers to an artificial intelligence algorithm that utilizes deep learning techniques and massive datasets to understand, summarize, generate, and predict new content. LLMs are generative models designed specifically for generating text-based content, boasting billions of parameters. An example of an LLM model is ChatGPT, which leverages the AI training technique "GPT" (Generative Pre-trained Transformer). The latest iteration, GPT-4, supports both text and image processing, using immense gpu sources for enhanced performance.

Models like ChatGPT feature conversational and interactive user interfaces that cater to the needs of individuals with vision impairments. Interactive UIs supporting TTS (Text-to-Speech) and STT (Speech-to-Text) technologies serve as valuable tools. These versatile interfaces allow for a wide range of questions and queries, accommodating the specific needs of users. For example, users can ask specific questions like, "Does this image contain a traffic light that is currently red?"

# 4. Social Impacts

Blind or visually impaired(BVI) people meet challenges in their daily life, because the infrastructures are designed mostly for sighted people. AI can help our society to be more inclusive, by reducing barriers of these infrastructures. In this study, we focused on the mobility of BVI people and their use of digital contents. 

AI might mitigate the challenges of BVI people in walking and using transportation. It is known that people with disabilities are excluded from society because of limitations of mobility capability. BVI people, as well, struggle to move in both outdoor and indoor pathways, because it is hard to locate themselves and recognize nearby environments and potential dangers. There is technology that helps BVI people get to their destination, such as a white cane, Braille blocks(on the road), Braille tags(on the wall), and audio guidance systems. Also, BVI people walk with their guide dogs. However, roads are still danger place for BVI people (한국 소비자원. 2020)[^11], and their capabilities indoor/outdoor moving are limited. AI technology can help BVI people get to their destination in different ways. Automatic understanding of the world around the user can help BVI people navigate indoor environments(Microsoft Research. 2023)[^12]. Also, Level 5 autonomous vehicles are expected to make BVI people use the public road independently. AI has potential to make the roads and indoor pathways of our society more inclusive to BVI people.

AI is decreasing the divide of BVI people in using the Internet. The Internet is an essential infrastructure for (not limited to) learning, communicating, enjoying leisure, and buying things. However, BVI people meet difficulties in using the Internet, which also lead to challenges in various activities. The difficulties happen because most Internet contents are poorly designed for a screen reader, which is an essential tool for BVI people. AI can make shopping mall page easy to read by screen reader(소리마켓[^13]), help BVI people communicate with presentation slides(Peng et al. 2023[^14]), or convey complex information through a conversation(Josh Shi. 2016[^15], 아씨오[^16]). These AI tools can make the Internet more inclusive. 

However, AI can be another barrier to BVI people if they are not properly considered from the design process. For computer vision systems like a visual question answering system, BVI people need it to work well with poorly taken (in a viewpoint of sighted people) photographs, because they take photos differently with sighted people. A system trained on a dataset mostly consisting of photos taken by sighted people would not address this need of BVI people. Without consideration from the design stage like constructing a dataset with photos taken by BVI people(Gurari et al. 2018[^17]) AI might cause unfair systems for BVI people.

In conclusion, AI has a large potential to reduce the barrier of our society towards BVI people. However, AI technology can also contribute to social exclusion when BVI people are not considered from an early stage of its development. Hence, we should encourage the consideration of BVI people through the entire process of AI development and use, to live in a more proper society for BVI people. 

# 5. Legal Aspects

‘Digital Inclusion Law’ is going under a long discussion in Korea, which was proposed with an objective to bridge the digital divide and ensure that all citizens can utilize the benefits of digital technology without any discrimination or exclusion. A basis for this law could be found from *Article 10* of the *Constitution of the Republic of Korea* as it states that “All citizens shall be assured of human worth and dignity and have the right to pursuit of happiness”. Thus, all citizens should have an equal right to access what current technologies offer by enhancing digital literacy without any digital divide.

There are other related laws in Korea that mention the use of digital technology without any discrimination. *Article 36* of *Enforcement Decree Of Framework Act On Intelligent Information* mentioned that “All content must be presentable to users in ways they can perceive/operate, regardless of the type of their disability whether it is a visual or hearing impairment, and their ages”. *Article 21 ‘Duty to Provide Reasonable Accommodation in Information and Communications and Communication’* of *Act On The Prohibition Of Discrimination Against Persons With Disabilities And Remedy Against Infringement Of Their Rights* mentions that the stakeholders of certain digital technology should “provide necessary means, such as Korean sign language and writing, to ensure that persons with disabilities may access and use electronic and non-electronic information produced and distributed by such entities, etc. on an equal basis with persons without disabilities. ” These articles of laws show that ‘disability’ should not stand as a barrier for users who want to experience digital content.

 In fact, global organizations have been putting effort into establishing a digital environment that everyone could appreciate. The ‘*Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD)*‘ enacted on 2008.05.03 by the United Nations claims that the right for actual participation and equal opportunity of people with disabilities, not on the level of individual rehabilitation or beneficial welfare, should be guaranteed. This has been a basis for various laws and policies on the rights of people with disabilities in many countries, including Korea. 

 However, current laws regarding the digital experience of users with disabilities still lack to ensure the equal exploitation of the benefits of technology. The laws mention how the stakeholders of certain technology should put effort on the services, rather than a compulsory regulation that must be followed. The current state of laws is not enough to solve the digital divide that occurs between users with and without disabilities, thus a separate legislation and an official committee is certainly required. Also, since an active participation and exploitation of the digital contents of users with disabilities should be ensured, specific and clear guidelines based on precise user needs should be written in legislations for them to be actually implemented on digital services and platforms. 

# 6. Case Study

 We have interviewed two experts on the field of people with visual disability and their digital experience: Professor Hyun Wook Ka of the Department of Transdisciplinary Studies in KAIST, and CEO Jihyuk Park of Waddle.

## 6-1. Summary of Interviews

 Professor Hyun Wook Ka, who has a visual impairment himself, introduced his experiences of using digital platforms including both aspects that were helpful or needed improval. He also mentioned that the design process of AI services hardly considers people with various disabilities. In terms of related laws, prof. Ka mentioned the blind spots of the current laws for people with disabilities.

 CEO Jihyuk Park, who has created a barrier-free online shopping platform “Sori Market” for users with visual disabilities, talked about the difficulties that the visually disabled face when shopping online which has been the reason why he has created Sori Market using OCR. He has also mentioned about the current technological limitations of LLM and OCR that could happen in commercial fields.

## 6-2. Insights from Interviews

We have come to realize that adopting the perspective of individuals with disabilities is crucial in our efforts to create a more inclusive society. Although this perspective may be challenging to fully comprehend, it is an essential undertaking for the betterment of society as a whole. To achieve this, effective communication, cooperation, and continuous feedback with individuals with disabilities are of utmost importance. This collaborative process should commence early on during technology development and persist until the final stages of implementation. This could be represented as the 3C that stakeholders of the AI services should follow: Continuous monitoring and feedback, Cooperation, and Contemplation.

By consistently incorporating input from individuals with disabilities, we can significantly reduce the presence of blind spots within our technological advancements. A fundamental prerequisite for this organic feedback process is the establishment of a societal agenda that values inclusivity. When the majority of society adopts a mindset of reevaluating situations from the perspective of those with disabilities, we can create a society that effortlessly embraces individuals with disabilities. The key lies in establishing a framework that fosters ongoing monitoring and contemplation, ensuring continuous improvement and inclusivity in our societal structure.

One notable point of discussion in the interview with CEO Jihyuk Park centered around the introduction of vision technology (OCR) in the shopping platform. It was emphasized that even with the implementation of OCR, achieving 100% accuracy is challenging. Consequently, there is a potential for consumers to receive incorrect information, leading to possible disputes. Despite the demand for swift adoption by individuals with visual disabilities, the platform is hesitant due to the complex issue of legal responsibility. In addition, even though OCR achieves 100% accuracy, it is not enough (or too much) for visually impaired users to get all the information on the image to be read. Thus, just adopting AI technology is not enough and consideration on the use experience of target users is necessary.

This case exemplifies a broader trend applicable to various sectors utilizing AI services in society. Autonomous vehicles, for instance, represent a significant technological breakthrough with AI technology achieving a high accuracy rate. However, granting these vehicles full autonomy poses substantial risks. Acknowledging that no AI technology can be truly flawless, it becomes imperative to consider the potential groups of individuals who may suffer harm as a result of AI-related incidents. The responsibility for envisioning the future implications of a particular technology lies not solely with AI developers but with society as a whole. By engaging in proactive thinking, the negative consequences can be minimized, while maximizing the benefits derived from AI technology.

# 7. Conclusion

In conclusion, the integration of artificial intelligence (AI) holds immense potential for creating a more inclusive society, particularly for individuals with vision impairments. By utilizing AI technologies such as computer vision and large language models (LLMs), we can address the challenges faced by people with vision impairments and enhance their accessibility and participation in various aspects of life. However, it is crucial to consider the perspectives and needs of the visually impaired people throughout the entire development and implementation process of AI technologies. Incorporating their insights, fostering collaboration, and continuously seeking feedback are essential for reducing blind spots and creating more inclusive solutions. Moreover, legal frameworks should be established to ensure equal access and digital inclusion for visually impaired people. By prioritizing inclusivity and continuous communication on AI development, we can harness the full potential of AI and contribute to a society that values equality for all. Thus the 3C (Continuous monitoring and feedback, Cooperation, Contemplation) is strongly suggested for further developments of AI services.

# References
[^1]: 원종배, 이부하. (2022). 디지털 포용정책의 법제도적 내용과 발전방향. IT와 법연구, 24.
[^2]: [한국웹접근성인증평가원. WA 관련법규.](http://www.wa.or.kr/m1/sub10.asp)
[^3]: [보건복지부. 장애인권리협약 소개.](https://www.mohw.go.kr/react/policy/index.jsp?PAR_MENU_ID=06&MENU_ID=06370202&PAGE=2&topTitle=)
[^4]: [NULI. (2022). 2022년 접근성 관련 법안 및 정책 살펴보기.](https://nuli.navercorp.com/community/article/1133138.) 
[^5]: 정다은. (2022). 독일의 접근성강화법 제정과 시사점. 국제사회보장리뷰, 22, 87-100.
[^6]: 김종명. (2011). 국내외 정보통신 접근성 정책 현황 및 과제. 한국정보통신기술협회, 137, 32-36. 
[^7]: [What is OCR.](https://www.necc.mass.edu/wp-content/uploads/accessible-media-necc/uncategorized/resources/What-is-OCR.pdf)
[^8]: [AI and OCR: How optical character recognition is being revitalised.](https://www.information-age.com/optical-character-recognition-tools-ocr-ai-12916/)
[^9:]: [Computer Vision Applications for the Visually Impaired.](https://keymakr.com/blog/computer-vision-applications-for-the-visually-impaired/)
[^10]: [large language model (LLM).](https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/definition/large-language-model-LLM)
[^11]: 한국소비자원 안전감시국 생활안전팀. (2020). 시각장애인 보행 안전실태조사: 건물 주차장 출입구 인접 보도를 중심으로.
[^12]: [Microsoft Research. (2023). Seeing AI.](https://youtu.be/sKMHg1DpTuE)
[^13]: [소리마켓.](https://sorimarket.shop/)
[^14]: Y.H. Peng et al. (2023). Slide Gestalt: Automatic Structure Extraction in Slide Decks for Non-Visual Access. ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 2023)
[^15]: Josh Shi. (2016). How conversational interfaces make the internet more accessible for everyone.
[^16]: [아씨오.](https://www.accio.chat/)
[^17]: D. Gurari, et al. (2018), "VizWiz Grand Challenge: Answering Visual Questions from Blind People," in 2018 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Salt Lake City, UT, USA, 2018 pp. 3608-3617. doi: 10.1109/CVPR.2018.00380
[^18]: [Jiaji Wang, Shuihua Wang, Yudong Zhang. Artificial intelligence for visually impaired. Displays. Volume 77. 2023. 102391. ISSN 0141-9382.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.displa.2023.102391)
[^19]: [Martinez. 2021.](https://www.inclusivecitymaker.com/artificial-intelligence-accessibility-examples-technology-serves-people-disabilities/)
[^20]: [Meredith Ringel Morris. 2020. AI and accessibility. Commun. ACM 63, 6 (June 2020), 35–37.](https://doi.org/10.1145/3356727)
[^21]: [Guo et al. 2019. Toward Fairness in AI for People with Disabilities: A Research Roadmap. ACM ASSETS 2019 Workshop on AI Fairness for People with Disabilities.](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1907.02227)
[^22]: [AXS Chat. 2019. AXSChat with John Rochford.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kwE7Cb1aCwo&t=3s)
[^23]: [Startup KAIST. 2022. Startup人터뷰 시각장애인들을 돕는 AI기반 배리어프리 쇼핑 플랫폼 ‘소리마켓’을 개발한 Waddle 박지혁 대표님.](https://startup.kaist.ac.kr/boards/view/board_interveiw/443)